Next up, we're going to take a look
at property decorators.
Now property decorators
are really fun and they are actually
solving a purpose
of controlling the elements.
And what does that even mean?
Let me take you on to the screen
and walk you through with the whole
idea behind, these decorators, or
also known as property decorator.
So let's just say you have designed
a class and in this class you
have added some value to it.
Maybe there is age factor.
So you are having this age
of T leaves you're within,
and this whole thing just try
to assume this is a class.
Now as of now, this age is just
a property and anybody can actually,
let just say this is
an object or this is any other user.
They have the full capacity to
reach out to this age, they can read
it and they can also get all
the values, whatever is stored
in this age, four years, five years.
Now not only that, they can
also go ahead and reach out
and update the value of this age
to anything, anything that
they want, probably minus 10.
That doesn't mean an age,
but they have full
control over this property.
And sometimes in the classes
you want that this control
should not be given to, or at least
for all of the properties.
So for that particular case we have
a special mechanism, a special way
of writing the code so that
we can control, these properties.
And this can be done for all
the properties, or this can be done
for just one, two, however you wish
to do and accomplish that.
So I'll take you up, up here
and I will walk you
through how this can be done.
So we need to have a new file
and let's call this one as 11/
underscore and we're going to call
this one as property decorators.
Py.
Of course.
All right, the step one is
to turn off the AI.
I use AI a lot these days.
So let's just say we have
the same example and we
call this one as T leaf.
And the step one is
to declare a constructor.
So we'll just go ahead
and say constructor.
As you are creating this T
leaf, you take this age as your
argument and then you simply
go ahead and say self dot.
And here's the interesting thing,
we don't call it as age, we
call it as underscore age.
And this underscore doesn't
mean on its own anything.
It's just a Python way
of saying that, hey, this is
an interesting property.
This shouldn't be allowed
to touch directly.
There needs to be a way of
reading, this property as well
as writing to this property.
And this is a symbol which is
used throughout the industry.
So whenever you see an underscore
that means, this is having
something special as a meaning.
Now surely this can be done
without underscore as well.
But this is such a common thing
and Python also knows this.
So Python doesn't treat this in a lot
of places as underscore age.
You'll see this as
age treated like this.
But I want to show you that how this
is being done in the industry.
So the step one of doing this is
first of all go ahead and use
decorator again and write that,
hey, I want to use property.
Yep.
After that you simply define
the method just after this
and you name the property
which you want to control.
And this is going to be age.
But hey, we called our
property as underscore age.
That's exactly my point.
Python knows this, that this variable
has to have a special meaning.
So anything underscore will
be treated as just age.
How interesting that is.
And we can just go ahead and after
this call this one as self.
And this method names
to be exactly same.
You cannot change this.
This is called to be as age.
All right, so here what we are going
to say that while we return
this variable which is self
dot underscore age, obviously we
actually don't return it directly.
We can, but just for the fun we'll
just go ahead and say we'll always
return you an additional two value.
So, so if the age you're passing me,
as zero, we'll call
this as two years probably.
I don't know why you will
do that, but let's just
say that's your use case.
And apart from this, now what you
can do once you have defined this,
now I can actually use an age.
That's interesting.
It has automatically made it
as a decorator and you can
use that same variable name.
And then you can go ahead and say
that I want to use a setter method.
So this method that you have
made, this is how we get
the value outside of this class.
This is going to be responsible how
you set the value inside this class.
So very interesting aspect.
And we call this same age.
Yep.
And we take this one.
Since we need to set some value
inside it, we are going to take that
value, whatever you are adding this.
And now we will perform
a simple check.
If the value is less than
or probably equal to the age, it's
in the range of one and it should be
maximum of five,
we can have a space, no problem.
All right, then only we are going
to go ahead and say self
dot underscore age, and we're
going to put this as age.
And in all the other cases,
we are going to go ahead.
Let's actually go ahead
and have an else case.
In all the else cases, we
are going to go ahead and say,
let's raise an error.
We'll call this one as value error.
And we are going to mark this as tea
leaf age must be between.
Between one and five years.
Five years, There we go.
So notice here how we are
actually controlling each aspect
in this really beautiful
class that we have written.
So we have this age, we have single
property here, and it could be
more, but then you have to perform
all this operation for each one of
the value that you want to
control.
Now, here's the interesting aspect.
Let's just say we call this as
a simple leaf, and we create this
object from this class tea leaf,
and we provide a value of two.
All right, that's surely doable.
Now, I want to simply go ahead
and print this leaf age.
I'll just go ahead and say I want
to just print the age,
just like I regularly do that.
Notice here, I'm not calling it
as underscore age or anything.
I'm saying, hey, I'm just
calling the age
technically behind the scene.
You're calling this method.
But hey, we never called it like this
because that's the magic
of this, property here.
That's what it does
behind the scenes.
Let's go ahead and actually
print the value.
That will give us a lot of ideas
of how things are going on.
We'll go ahead and say Python 3.
This one is 11.
And there we go.
Notice here it says feh.
It says four, although we
provided the value as two.
That's because we have
overwritten that.
What you are going to read
the value, how you are going
to read, we are controlling that.
Now, on top of this, if I go ahead
and try to set some value onto this,
let's just say I go ahead and say
leaf age, and that age can be four.
That's totally allowed.
Let's go ahead and print this again.
Surely that will be
totally allowed that.
All right, the value is,
although we did set it up four.
But we get it six.
But if we try to have the value
of something, let's just say six,
that will give us a problem.
Notice here.
We get the error and this is
something that we have designed.
We have designed our own errors, in
this case, arrays, as a value error.
tea error must be like this
T leaf age must be
between 1 and 5 value error.
So all of this thing, we are
controlling the error part as well.
Now again, in this case it
doesn't make sense that you are
calling me that value can only
be between 1 and 5, but you
are adding the value to.
And that's the beauty of learning.
We can actually go ahead
and control the things that we want
to do to make sure that
we understand the things.
So this is really interesting.
You can use a, property
to actually have this.
Don't forget this underscore.
This is kind of a secret handshake
between the Python programmers
in the world of Python that
hey, this is how we define it.
Anything with underscore that
means it needs to have
a setter, getters and setters.
This is by the way called as getter.
This is called as setter.
We have a lot of names, we call
them as sometimes properties,
sometimes getters and setters,
whatever we call them, the goal
is same to control the value that
how we read the value and control
that how we actually edit those
values.
That is it for this video.
Don't forget to rate us and let's
catch up in the next video.